# Assignment 10 (final)

We're going to explore the dataset `titanic`, containing information about the passengers of the unlucky ship. While preparing your notebook, please separate the tasks using markdown headers. Also, please keep the notebook neat and tidy (don't include unneeded code).

1. Download [titanic.csv](../data/titanic.zip), unzip and upload it to Google Colab. Then load it into a Pandas DataFrame. You can also use be a H@x0r and load the dataset directly with the URL: `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/k-basinski/psr/main/data/titanic.csv`
2. Investigate the dataset. Try to figure out, which columns represent what.
3. How many passengers survived the catastrophe? Use `value_counts()`. Provide the result in numbers as well as percentage.
4. Calculate mean and standard deviation for age. Group the dataset for passengers who survived and died. Calculate mean and SD for these groups.
5. Find the names of 20 oldest people who survived the catastrophe.
6. Look for the variable storing the passenger class (the higher the class, the more luxurious the appointments). Using a Seaborn plot, present the relationship between passenger class and survival. Provide a short description of the plot in markdown.
7. Make a boxplot showing the ticket cost (*Fare*) depending on passenger class. Provide a short description of the plot in markdown.
8. Make a violin plot showing ticket cost distribution for people who died and survived. Provide a short description of the plot in markdown.
9. Make a similar violin plot as in 8. Additionally, take gender into account. Provide a short description of the plot in markdown.

